# Industrial Automation

## Introduction
So the definition of an industrial automation is the use of set of technologies, and automatic control devices for control systems, such as computers and robots. These devices are used for handling different operations, and control of industrial processes without significant human intervention. The word automation means to act of oneself or to act and advisedly. And it's derived from a Greek word auto, which means self and word matters, which means moving. Automation therefore is the mechanism for system that moves by itself. So automation industry replaces the human involvement with the use of logic programming commands and powerful machines to achieve the desired tasks. Industrial automation components include controllers, including different types like programmable logic controllers, PLC, distributed control system, DCS, field industrial devices, industrial communication and networking, human machine interface, HMI, supervisor control and data acquisition, SCADA, and personal computers. Industrial automation system can be very complex in nature, having large number of devices working in synchronization with automation technology. 

However to simplify the concept, there are three main level within the automation system:
1. field level: Field level are the devices used within the field
3. control level: Control level is the different type of controller used
4. management and information level: Management and information level is the upper level where the logic and design is done.

### Field Level
Industry is now using computers to control and monitor the sequence of machines. Any controller cannot hear, see, and monitor processes by themselves as operators do. So industrial control systems use industrial sensors to help the controller perform their tasks and capabilities. Sensors within industrial field level check whether parts are present, size of the part, color of the part, and whether or not the product is full or empty, good or bad. Sensors also used to ensure safety of the equipment, products, and operators. A common classifications of sensors is contact and non-contact. One of the simple ways to identify it is if the sensor must contact the part to sense it, the sensor is classified as a contact sensor. Non-contact sensors can detect the part without touching it physically. An example is using limit switch on a conveyor belt. When the part moves the level of the switch, the switch changes its state. This is an example of non-contact sensor, vision sensor. When the part moves on a conveyor belt, the sensor detects the part without touching it. Another way to classify sensors is by analog and digital. Digital sensor has two states: on 1, off 0. The output is either on or off. If a sensor senses the object, it gives an output of one. And the output is usually connected to a PLC input. Light sensor is an example. Analog sensor can provide more information about the process. Temperature sensor is an example where a temperature sensor gives a wide range of reading. The analog sensor sends the temperature and send a current to the PLC. Pressure sensors and level sensors are example of analog sensors and usually give an output of 4-20 milliamps. Here are examples of different types of sensors used in industrial automation: temperature sensors, level sensors, proximity sensors, light sensors, fiber-optic sensors, displacement sensors, vision and photoelectric sensors.

### Communication Networks
 There are many communication networks used within control system in industrial automation. The networks are called industrial networks referring to the applications where they are used with an industry. Here are some of the industrial network types, DeviceNet, Modbus, HART communication, PROFIBUS, Ethernet, ControlNet. The communication networks are based on the OSI, Open Systems Interconnection reference model. The OSI model was introduced by the International Organization for Standardization, ISO in 1984. It is a conceptual model of how various components communicate in a database networks. It is a seven layer model, each layer represents a different level of communication and provides support to the layer above it. The layers are physical, data link, network, transport, session, presentation, and application. The OSI model is not itself a communication network standard like Ethernet. Rather it's a framework under which the various network standards can operate. The OSI model specifies the characteristic of various networks standards, so it function as a standard for data communication standards. A common classification of industrial networks is having three main networks within industrial settings, device, control and management network. The network that regulates the devices within the field level. The network that regulates the controllers and the network that connects the application and management layer. 

#### Level 1:EtherNEt
The first category of industrial network is the one with an information and management level. An example is Ethernet. Ethernet is the most widely used protocol at the application management level of communication networks due to the use of computers within industrial settings. Ethernet is a standard by IEEE known as IEEE standard 8020.3. Ethernet is popular because it's fast, inexpensive and easy to install. Ethernet IP is a communication standard supported by open DeviceNet Vender Association, ODVA, and ControlNet International Association. Ethernet TCP/IP, where TCP means Transport Control Protocol, and IP means Internet Protocol. It is an application layer industrial protocol that is built on the standard of TCP/IP stack. Ethernet IP uses a standard Ethernet hardware and operates over Ethernet, using the Common Industrial Protocol, CIP, ControlNet and DeviceNet and the TCP/IP protocol stack. Here's an example of how to implement Ethernet protocol and Ethernet IP within industrial settings. Where it's used to connect computer to the controller devices, a PLC is an example, and to connect to a linking devices.

#### Level 2:ControlNEt
To continue the discussion about the three main networks with industrial settings, the second category is industrial network within the control level. An example of control level is ControlNet network. ControlNet is an open industrial network protocol for industrial automation applications, also known as Fieldbus. ControlNet is an open network that supports both field devices and control level communication used for real time data transfer for time critical and non-time time critical data between processors or inputs and outputs on the same link. ControlNet was developed by Allen-Bradley and managed by ControlNet international organization of vendor since 1997. Since 2008, ControlNet management is handled by Open Device Vendor Association, ODVA. For ControlNet, being an open network, hardware from many vendors can be purchased and connected to as a node to the network. It can connect up to 99 nodes. Each is having ControlNet communication interface. The nodes can be a variable frequency devices, control valves, sensors, and controllers, or PLCs. In ControlNet Fieldbus systems, only session layer is missing from the OSI model. ControlNet communication is a high-speed network used for transition of time critical application. Here are examples of devices and products of ControlNet provided by Allen-Bradley.

#### Level 3:Device
The device-level network is the lowest level. It consists of planted floor devices. Many device-level networks are available. DeviceNet is one of them. DeviceNet is an open network protocol based on CAN technology. It was introduced in 1994. DeviceNet is an implementation of the Common Industrial Protocol, CIP, for industrial communication networks. Developed originally by Allen-Bradley and now DeviceNet is managed by a group called Open DeviceNet Vendors Association, ODVA. DeviceNet is an open network used mainly for the connection of industrial controllers and input and output devices, low-level devices such as sensors, valves, push buttons, and variable frequently drivers. And because it's an open network, devices or nodes from many different manufacturers can be used. Here are examples of devices and products of DeviceNet network provided by Allen-Bradley. A DeviceNet network can have up to 64 devices or nodes. Address is from zero to 63. The second example of industrial network is a HART communication network. HART communication is bidirectional communication protocol that provides data access between field devices and control systems. Bidirectional communication is to send and receive from the devices. HART is an acronym for Highway Addressable Remote Transducer. HART uses Bell 202 Frequency-Shift Keying standards, FSK, on top of 4-20 milliamps. The HART protocol is often called the hybrid protocol because it combines analog and digital communication. The HART protocol communicates without interrupting the 4-20 milliamp signal and thus allowing the master application to get more digital updates from the smart field device. This way, helps to enable two-way field communication from and to the device. Here's an example of connecting a field HART pressure sensor device to a master application, a PLC, a DCS for example, using a HART communication. The third communication protocol is a PROFIBUS communication. PROFIBUS is a protocol introduced by a field bus working group in 1987. It is supported by PI, PROFIBUS and PROFINET International. Using a single bus cable, PROFIBUS links controller or control systems with decentralized field devices, an example is sensors or actuators on the field level, and also enables consistent data exchange with higher ranking communication systems. There are two types within PROFIBUS protocol. PROFIBUS DP is a high-speed data network for factory automation. A PROFIBUS PA is a communication system for PROFIBUS automation application. This is an example of how a PROFIBUS communication is structured. A PROFIBUS DP device is connection to the control system using a single cable. A PROFIBUS PA, however, use a DP/PA coupler to be connected to the control system.

### Control(PLC & DCS) and Managment Level
Control and Management Level. The basic function of industrial automation controllers is to examine the status of inputs and response controls some processes or machines through outputs. Control level is the second level with an industrial automation system. It basically controls the flow of data from the device level to the management level, according to a certain logic or program. The logic combination on inputs to produce an output or outputs are called control logic. The common industrial controllers are distributed control system, DCS, programmable logic controller, PLC, and PC-based control. Distributed control system, DCS. DCS is a platform for automated control system used to control complex, large and geographically distributed applications in industrial processes where controllers are distributed through the entire planet area. A DCS combines the following into a single automated system, a human machine interface, HMI, logic control and solvers, supervisor control, alarm management, and a common database. In DCS systems, controllers are disappeared through the entire plant area. Programmable logic controllers, PLC. Programmable controllers are industrial computers, which control devices by continuously monitoring the state of the input devices and control the state of the output devices. Programmable logic controllers, PLC, and distributed control systems, DCS. Programmable logic controllers and distributed control systems are used to send, receive and process data from sensors, control valves and actuators as part of the control system. Both systems share the following components, field devices, input and output models, controllers, human machine interface, HMI, engineer supervisor control, and in business integration. DCS does not monitor items. It monitors a whole process and it can monitor multiple processes at the same time. The response time is slow comparing to PLC. The PLC on the other hand monitors discrete things. It has a high speed response comparing to DCS. PC based control. PC based controllers are used for simple control system where a computer can be used to control a device or multiple devices with an industrial area. Computer software programmers develop an application that can be used in the control system. One of the advantages of using computers due to their graphical capabilities, the software systems are easier to use in the development of the logic, the data collected can be easily transferred to spreadsheets, word processor, or any other analysis software. It is also easier to connect computer to a LAN network within the area. Management level, management level includes different types of software application programs for process control. They're gathering of data in a real time from a remote location in order to control the process. The management level usually acquire data from remote devices, such as valves, bombs, transmitters, et cetera, and provide an overall control remotely from the host software platform.

## Programmable Logic Controller (PLC)
 PLC is an acronym for a programmable logic controller. PLC is an industrial computer control system, which control devices by continuously monitoring the state of input devices and make decision based on a logic program to control the state of an output device. Incoming control signal called an input. A signal going out of the PLC to control a field device is an output. PLC is a special form of microprocessor based controller that uses programmable memory to store instruction to control machines and processes, sense, receives and processes data from and to the field devices. PLC monitors discreet things. It has a high speed response. So usually they're using application where a high speed response is required like manufacturing processes, industrial application, and some traffic systems. Basically, any application that needs that regulation of an input and an output.

## Supervisory Control and Data Acqusition (SCADA)

